555 556 558 re-write of the AppD overview page (#570)
finos/FDC3: docs/app-directory/overview.md

# App Directory Overview

> An Application Directory (AppD) is a structured repository of information about apps that can be used in an FDC3-enabled desktop. In other words, it’s a convenient way of storing and managing metadata about apps in your ecosystem. 

Author: ```suggestion
An application directory (appD) is a structured repository of information about apps that can be used in an FDC3-enabled desktop. In other words, it’s a convenient way of storing and managing metadata about apps in your ecosystem. 
```

> The application metadata stored in appD includes the app name, type, details about how to run the application, its icons, publisher, support contact details and so on. All this information is readily available in one place and can be used both to populate a launcher or app catalog UI for your users, and by the desktop agent managing the apps on your desktop. In fact, if your smart desktop follows the FDC3 standard, appD is the primary way your desktop agent knows all the details about apps available to run on your desktop. Conversely, if an app is not listed in appD, the desktop agent can’t ensure its participation in context sharing or use it to resolve intents.

Reviewer: Can we use "desktop agent" throughout? I get "smart desktop" but don't think it's the right term - seem to be a rather generic terms for lots of things out there...

> The application metadata stored in appD includes the app name, type, details about how to run the application, its icons, publisher, support contact details and so on. All this information is readily available in one place and can be used both to populate a launcher or app catalog UI for your users, and by the desktop agent managing the apps on your desktop. In fact, if your smart desktop follows the FDC3 standard, appD is the primary way your desktop agent knows all the details about apps available to run on your desktop. Conversely, if an app is not listed in appD, the desktop agent can’t ensure its participation in context sharing or use it to resolve intents.

Author: ```suggestion
The application metadata stored in appD includes the app name, type, details about how to run the application, its icons, publisher, support contact details and so on. All this information is readily available in one place and can be used both to populate a launcher or app catalog UI for your users, and by the desktop agent managing the apps on your desktop. In fact, if your desktop platform supports the FDC3 standard, appD is the primary way that the FDC3 desktop agent implementation should receive the details about apps available to run on your desktop. Conversely, if an app is not listed in appD, the desktop agent can’t ensure its participation in context sharing or use it to resolve intents.
```

Does that resolve the concern @openfin-johans ?

Reviewer: Yup, looks good to me.

> The application metadata stored in appD includes the app name, type, details about how to run the application, its icons, publisher, support contact details and so on. All this information is readily available in one place and can be used both to populate a launcher or app catalog UI for your users , and by the desktop agent managing the apps on your desktop. In fact, if your smart desktop follows the FDC3 standard, appD is the primary way your desktop agent knows all the details about apps available to run on your desktop. Conversely, if an app is not listed in appD, the desktop agent can’t ensure its participation in context sharing or use it to resolve intents.

Author: ```suggestion
The application metadata stored in appD includes the app name, type, details about how to run the application, its icons, publisher, support contact details and so on. All this information is readily available in one place and can be used both to populate a launcher or app catalog UI for your users, and by the desktop agent managing the apps on your desktop. In fact, if your smart desktop follows the FDC3 standard, appD is the primary way your desktop agent knows all the details about apps available to run on your desktop. Conversely, if an app is not listed in appD, the desktop agent can’t ensure its participation in context sharing or use it to resolve intents.
```

## Advantages 

> Using appD offers many advantages both for the financial institutions running a smart desktop and for vendors that provide FDC3-compliant apps:

Author: ```suggestion
Using appD offers many advantages both for the financial institutions running an FDC3-enabled desktop container and for vendors that provide FDC3-compliant apps:
```

### For the user

#### Easier to find app info

> AppD is the one place to collect all the information about apps. The more apps you have, the more you’ll appreciate the convenience of not having to chase down details about each. This is particularly important for large institutions with multiple desks.

Author: ```suggestion
Your appD is the one place to collect all the information about apps. The more apps you have, the more you’ll appreciate the convenience of not having to chase down details about each. This is particularly important for large institutions with multiple desks.
```

#### Human readable

> AppD has two kinds of users. One is the desktop agent, but the other is humans administrating and using the smart desktop at your organization. Hence, AppD contains information about apps in both machine- and  human-readable forms. For example, it includes both a unique identifier for the app that is used to refer to it in code and a human-friendly app name, icon, description and tooltip necessary to populate a launcher menu or app catalog user interface. 

Author: ```suggestion
AppD has two types of users. One is the desktop agent, but the other is humans administrating and using the smart desktop at your organization. Hence, an appD contains information about apps in both machine- and human-readable forms. For example, it includes both a unique identifiers for apps that are used to refer to them in code and human-friendly app names, icons, descriptions and tooltips necessary to populate a launcher menu or app catalog user interface for your users. 
```

> AppD has two types of users. One is the desktop agent, but the other is humans administrating and using the smart desktop at your organization. Hence, an appD contains information about apps in both machine- and human-readable forms. For example, it includes both a unique identifiers for apps that are used to refer to them in code and human-friendly app names, icons, descriptions and tooltips necessary to populate a launcher menu or app catalog user interface for your users. 

Reviewer 2: > it includes both a unique identifiers for apps

unneeded 'a'
```suggestion
AppD has two types of users. One is the desktop agent, but the other is humans administrating and using the smart desktop at your organization. Hence, an appD contains information about apps in both machine- and human-readable forms. For example, it includes both unique identifiers for apps that are used to refer to them in code and human-friendly app names, icons, descriptions and tooltips necessary to populate a launcher menu or app catalog user interface for your users. 
```

#### Apps are discoverable

> For large institutions, it can be difficult to keep track of all the apps (developed both in-house and by vendors), since a typical desktop could have many. Users can search appD to discover the apps they need. It may already reside on their system or be available to them over the internet, but if they don’t have a way to search the apps available to them, they won’t be able to find it. AppD provides a way for users to discover the apps they need.

Reviewer 3: Change "It may already ..." to "An app may already ..." as the previous sentence is about plural apps, so "it" is not right.

> For large institutions, it can be difficult to keep track of all the apps (developed both in-house and by vendors), since a typical desktop could have many. Users can search appD to discover the apps they need. It may already reside on their system or be available to them over the internet, but if they don’t have a way to search the apps available to them, they won’t be able to find it. AppD provides a way for users to discover the apps they need.

Author: ```suggestion
For large institutions, it can be difficult to keep track of all the apps (developed both in-house and by vendors), since a typical desktop could have many. Users can search appD to discover the apps they need. An app might already reside on their system or be available to them over the internet, but if they don’t have a way to search the apps available to them, they won’t be able to find it. An appD provides a way for users to discover the apps they need.
```

> AppD makes it possible to discover info about apps that reside on various domains, not just the one domain the appD itself is hosted on. In addition, you can find details about how to launch the apps in multiple, diverse environments. This is in sharp contrast to web app manifest, which is hosted on the same domain as the app, is limted to web apps, and is generally used to 'install' an app that the user has already accessed.

Author: ```suggestion
An appD makes it possible to discover info about apps that reside on various domains, not just the one domain the appD itself is hosted on. In addition, you can find details about how to launch the apps in multiple, diverse environments. This is in sharp contrast to the [W3C's Web App Manifest](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/), which is hosted on the same domain as the app, is limited to web apps, and is generally used to 'install' an app that the user has already accessed.
```

> An appD makes it possible to discover info about apps that reside on various domains, not just the one domain the appD itself is hosted on. In addition, you can find details about how to launch the apps in multiple, diverse environments. This is in sharp contrast to the [W3C's Web App Manifest](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/), which is hosted on the same domain as the app, is limited to web apps, and is generally used to 'install' an app that the user has already accessed.

Reviewer: "Sharp contrast" sounds a bit harsh - how about "Compare with"?

Reviewer: I like your suggestion and referring to use-case makes perfect sense in my mind.

#### Updating apps

> Typically, software evolves over time. The app versions you are running today will not be the same ones you need tomorrow. Therefore, you will need to upgrade apps periodically. Very few people look forward to upgrading, but appD and web deployment can make it easier for you. To roll out a new version of your  app, either update the existing entry for it in appD or add a new entry for that version (allowing users to select the version they will use).

Reviewer 2: 'new version of your app,' has a double space

```suggestion
Typically, software evolves over time. The app versions you are running today will not be the same ones you need tomorrow. Therefore, you will need to upgrade apps periodically. Very few people look forward to upgrading, but appD and web deployment can make it easier for you. To roll out a new version of your app, either update the existing entry for it in appD or add a new entry for that version (allowing users to select the version they will use).
```

#### Agent-agnostic

> As a part of the FDC3 standard, appD isn't tied to any specific vendor. This is important, as it allows you more flexibility in that you are not tied to any specific container or desktop agent implementation. If at any point you want to switch to a different desktop agent, the process won’t be prohibitively difficult. The existing appD will work without any additional effort from you, as long as your new desktop agent is also FDC3-compliant. This is in contrast with proprietary solutions, where you would have to reconstruct the entire ecosystem from scratch. 

Reviewer: "From scratch" might be a bit harsh - I would suggest replacing the last sentence with "Compare with proprietary solutions, where it's not guaranteed that the data structure would work with other desktop agents"

Author: But it is stronger than that - if you're using a proprietary format and move to a different vendor that uses a different format it's not going to work by serendipity. Hence 'not guaranteed' is too much of a mitigation in my opinion.

Would swapping out "reconstruct" for "reconfigure" help mitigate @openfin-johans ?

Author: But the statement is in fact true - if you use a proprietary solution to integrate everything, then try to switch provider you have to write new configs replacing the proprietary ones... this is the primary benefit of using the standard over a proprietary solution; so I'm not sure I see the issue. If its the wording, we can try other formulations, e.g.:

```suggestion
As a part of the FDC3 standard, appD isn't tied to any specific vendor. This is important, as it allows you more flexibility in that you are not tied to any specific container or desktop agent implementation. If at any point you want to switch to a different desktop agent, the process won’t be prohibitively difficult. The existing appD will work without any additional effort from you, as long as your new desktop agent is also FDC3-compliant. This is in contrast with proprietary solutions, where you would have to produce a new configuration and integration for every application. 
```

That said, the concept is already stated in the rest of the paragraph so I don't care all that much. It just seems to drive the point home a bit more clearly ;-)

Reviewer: Happy with your suggestion here - let's ship it!

Author: Thank you sir, done!

> As a part of the FDC3 standard, appD isn't tied to any specific vendor. This is important, as it allows you more flexibility in that you are not tied to any specific container or desktop agent implementation. If at any point you want to switch to a different desktop agent, the process won’t be prohibitively difficult. The existing appD will work without any additional effort from you, as long as your new desktop agent is also FDC3-compliant. This is in contrast with proprietary solutions, where you would have to reconstruct the entire ecosystem from scratch. \
>  \
> AppD reduces fragmentation in the market and allows end-users more flexibility in what applications can be included in their desktop.

Author: ```suggestion
As a part of the FDC3 standard, appD isn't tied to any specific vendor. This is important, as it allows you more flexibility in that you are not tied to any specific container or desktop agent implementation. If at any point you want to switch to a different desktop agent, the process won’t be prohibitively difficult. The existing appD will work without any additional effort from you, as long as your new desktop agent is also FDC3-compliant. This is in contrast with proprietary solutions, where you would have to reconstruct the entire ecosystem from scratch. 

AppD reduces fragmentation in the market and allows end-users more flexibility in what applications can be included in their desktop.
```

#### Intent resolution

> AppD provides information to the Desktop Agent on which applications support particular intents and the context types they require as input to them. This allows the Desktop Agent to implement an intent resolver that can launch applications and pass the intent and context to them to operate on, supporting workflows between applications that didn't require prior bilateral agreements between the application providers.

Author: ```suggestion
AppD provides information to the Desktop Agent on which applications support particular [intents](../intents/overview) and the context types they require as input to them. This allows the Desktop Agent to implement an [intent resolver](../api/spec#resolvers) that can launch applications and pass the intent and context to them to operate on, supporting workflows between applications that didn't require prior bilateral agreements between the application providers.
```

> AppD provides information to the Desktop Agent on which applications support particular [intents](../intents/overview) and the context types they require as input to them. This allows the Desktop Agent to implement an [intent resolver](../api/spec#resolvers) that can launch applications and pass the intent and context to them to operate on, supporting workflows between applications that didn't require prior bilateral agreements between the application providers.

Reviewer: I wouldn't say that apps "require" input - they "work with", "handle" or "understand"

Author: They do in fact require the context type to match what they are configured to receive or `findIntent` (when context is supplied) is not supposed to return an app as an option and `raiseIntent` (where context is always passed) shouldn't cause it to show up as an option in a resolver UI... 

If it feels better to write 'need' I can swap it out, but the meaning is the same. To use 'support' I'd need to replace the first use of it in that sentence, e.g.

```suggestion
AppD provides information to the Desktop Agent on which applications can handle particular [intents](../intents/overview) and the context types they support as input to them. This allows the Desktop Agent to implement an [intent resolver](../api/spec#resolvers) that can launch applications and pass the intent and context to them to operate on, supporting workflows between applications that didn't require prior bilateral agreements between the application providers.
```

Reviewer: Feels much better!

### For an Application Provider

> Until now, we've looked at appD from the perspective of a desktop owner and user. But appD also offers advantages to vendors who develop apps for the financial servicesdesktop.

Reviewer 3: space in ""servicesdesktop"

> Until now, we've looked at appD from the perspective of a desktop owner and user. But appD also offers advantages to vendors who develop apps for the financial servicesdesktop.

Author: ```suggestion
Until now, we've looked at appD from the perspective of a desktop owner and user. But appD also offers advantages to vendors who develop apps for the financial services desktop.
```

#### Apps work well together out of the box

When your customers add your FDC3-compliant app to their desktop via an appD record accurately describing it, you can be sure that your app will interoperate with other apps that follow the FDC3 standard. You don’t have to do anything special, or arrange a bilateral agreement with anyone else. The benefit of the open standard is that any app that follows it will work well with any other compliant app.

#### Easy updates

> As a vendor, you prefer for all your customers to run your latest software. However, many customers will postpone upgrades, sometimes for a long time, because upgrading is a pain. An advantage of a vencdor-hosted appD is that the configuration of app can be updated at any time and, if your customers need to choose when to upgrade, multiple versions of it made available, each with their own configuration. By making it easier for customers to update, you can drive better adoption.

Reviewer 3: "is a pain" => "can be a pain"

> As a vendor, you prefer for all your customers to run your latest software. However, many customers will postpone upgrades, sometimes for a long time, because upgrading is a pain. An advantage of a vencdor-hosted appD is that the configuration of app can be updated at any time and, if your customers need to choose when to upgrade, multiple versions of it made available, each with their own configuration. By making it easier for customers to update, you can drive better adoption.

Author: ```suggestion
As a vendor, you prefer for all your customers to run your latest software. However, many customers will postpone upgrades, sometimes for a long time, because upgrading can be a pain. An advantage of a vendor-hosted appD is that the configuration of an app can be updated at any time and, if your customers need to choose when to upgrade, multiple versions of it can be made available, each with their own configuration. By making it easier for customers to update, you can drive better adoption.
```

### For the industry

> AppD allows us to easily combine applications from various providers into one cohesive directory or to connect to directories from multiple providers (in standardized format) and provide a single view over them. This reduces fragmentation in the market, allows end-users more flexibility in what apps to include in their smart desktop, and obviates the need for vendors to provide application details in diverse formats or for their customers to work out these details for themselves.

Author: ```suggestion
By hosting our own appD we can easily combine applications from various providers into one cohesive directory. Alternatively, we can connect to directories from multiple providers (in standardized format) and provide a single view over them. This reduces fragmentation in the market, allows end-users more flexibility in what apps to include in their smart desktop, and obviates the need for vendors to provide application details in diverse formats or for their customers to work out these details for themselves.
```

# App Directory Overview

An application directory (appD) is a structured repository of information about apps that can be used in an FDC3-enabled desktop. In other words, it’s a convenient way of storing and managing metadata about apps in your ecosystem. 

> The application metadata stored in appD records may include: the app name, type, details about how to run the application, its icons, publisher, support contact details and so on. It may also include links to or embed manifest formats defined elsewhere, such as proprietary manifests for launching the app in container product or a Web Application Manifest (as [defined by the W3C](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/)). 

Author: ```suggestion
The application metadata stored in appD records may include: the app name, type, details about how to run the application, its icons, publisher, support contact details and so on. It may also include links to or embed manifest formats defined elsewhere, such as proprietary manifests for launching the app in a container product or a Web Application Manifest (as [defined by the W3C](https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest/)). 
```
